Five.
- Oslo Taxi.
- Is there anyone in the car with you?
No. just me
and the best band in the world.
The Doors isn't the best.
It's the most overrated band in the world.
Are you going to say something nice?
Or else I'll just hang up.
LA Woman has its moments.
What do you want?
Flunipam.
Guaranteed sleep.
Thanks.
Hey...
- Code breaking.
- Hm?
You know about that.
Yeah. a bit.
Well. what do you mean? Hacking?
Yes. or...
This serial killer... I...
I think he...
I think he's giving us codes.
We've found these pentagrams
in the vicinity of the victims.
- You think I can tell you what that means?
- Yes. that would be fucking nice.
The codes I was working with.
that was just mathematics. right?
Just numbers.
Interpersonal...
codes. that's entirely different.
What if it's both?
If you're going for that strategy.
you have to use your subconscious.
Your intuition.
That means that you...
That you don't know that you already know.
Right? And then. you have to combine it
with linear thinking. pattern recognition.
What do you know about trance?
Less than you. I think.
This one time. I spent four days
hacking into The Danish Bank
with a little help
from a small drop of frozen LSD.
Doors of perception.
If your subconscious cracks a code.
it will come to you.
So...
Trance?
Harry. look at me.
No more than two.
[Swedish] Open your eyes.
It is a simple pattern.
A red guiding star.
a five-pointed devil's cross
will show the way.
No. I think it's just more
of what we've already analyzed.
Do you ever doubt
your choice of profession?
Well. you get used
to the darnedest things.
If you stand in the shit.
you won't notice the smell.
No...
Okay. The only thing
the analyses are telling us.
is that this came
from a man who likes seeds.
Yeah. And then we have
the fingerprints from the TV shop.
matching those
in Camilla Loen's apartment.
Give us a few minutes.
Yeah. you can have the rest of the day
for my part. I'm finished here.
Perfect.
See you. Beate.
I was thinking about
the fingerprint you found.
Why did you call Hole first?
And not me.
the leader of the investigation?
- I suppose I thought that...
- You weren't thinking at all. were you?
That's the problem.
Was there anything else
you told Hole that you didn't tell me?
Yes. we've got the results of the contents
under Lisbeth Barli's nail.
Oh?
What was it?
Excrements.
Excrements?
Where did they come from?
I know where they came from.
but from whom?
They contained blood.
so maybe from a hemorrhoid.
Blood type B.
Found in seven percent of the population.
Willy Barli is a registered blood donor.
Did you miss me?
- Hi. Willy.
- Hi. Harry.
Hi.
Hungry?
Herring?
No. They said at the theater
that you were here.
- I've been every Wednesday for 15 years.
- Yes. the maître d' mentioned it.
Today is Thursday.
- Is it?
- Yes.
Yeah...
How are you doing?
Not that well.
No.
The show is in shambles.
and I'm in shambles. and...
Sorry. I'm just sitting here and...
You need to taste this.
This is the only place in Norway
where you can get fennel bread with...
I mean. with actual whole seeds.
- I've eaten.
- Okay.
We found traces of excrements
and blood under Lisbeth's nail.
Mm-hmm.
The analysis matches your blood type.
so I just have to ask
if we need to test your DNA.
No.
Lisbeth and I enjoyed
the act of postilion.
She fingerfucked me in the ass.
God...
I miss her so much. Harry.
I don't get it.
- I'm sorry.
- No...
Who do you miss?
- What makes you...
- The look in your eyes.
My mother. my colleague Ellen...
My girlfriend Rakel.
She's not your ex-girlfriend?
I don't know. she's trying to...
I mean... I'm trying to get her
to change her mind.
I see.
Why do you think she wants to leave?
I guess the short version is that...
she wishes I was different.
You know what?
I think I'm going to invite you
and the one you love... to the premiere.
Okay?
Pygmalion is based on a Greek myth.
about a sculptor who falls in love
with one of his own sculptures.
So maybe...
your girlfriend can see what happens when
you try to change another human being.
Yeah. Does it go wrong?
Harry. all my shows have happy endings.
My motto in life.
Hi. this is Ellen's voicemail. Talk to me.
You. who can see everything.
What does it mean?
Why...
Why does he choose
such complicated places?
Why isn't there sexual abuse?
What do the pentagrams mean?
The diamonds?
The fingers?
The cassette?
I've received an offer... for my soul.
What do you think about that?
You're 3.000 short.
We don't want knives. we just want guns.
That's what everybody's using now.
Why do people like you and me...
owe anybody?
Yes. Prince?
This was the last time I did this.
Okay? It's not working.
Hey.
Hi.
Don't you want to come out of the darkness
and into the light here with me?
You are the most beautiful creature
I've seen around here. did you know that?
You haven't smoked in a while.
Maybe never.
Oh. yes.
We can notice things like that. you and I.
When was the last time?
Oh.
It was serious.
What was his name?
Lars.
Close your eyes.
Come to daddy.
Hey. listen... This isn't work.
So...
Wanna go to my place?
Yes.
Okay.
My name is George.
My name is...
Tom.
Tom Waaler.
- How do you know...
- I've seen you in the papers.
You're investigating those murders.
So...
The secret of your little business
is safe with me. Tom.
Hey...
I've been fantasizing about being
one of your clients.
Can we do that first?
Come.
Leave the dog.
Stay.
Harry. look at me.
No more than two.
You are the problem.
I want you to come home.
Seize the one chance
that people like us will get.
We're about 150 meters behind.
heading towards Majorstukrysset.
Eggs coagulate when you heat them up.
the same thing happens with blood.
Five.
A red guiding star...
- Five.
- A small. red gemstone shaped like a star.
I had a dream about Camilla Loen
and that diamond you found.
You are the problem.
The pentagram is an old religious symbol.
The teachings of evil.
- Did you find her finger?
- Died around five.
A small. red gemstone shaped like a star.
You are the problem.
She died around five.
- It happened between 4:55 and 5.
- Fifth floor.
- Five.
- ...will show the way.
Easy!
When the pentagram
is turned the other way.
with two of the points pointing up.
you're entering the realm of things
that are used in the teachings of evil.
A small. red gemstone shaped like a star.
A red guiding star...
- You are the problem.
- Seize the one chance...
Five.
The pentagram...
- Five.
- A small. red gemstone...
You are the problem.
A small. red gemstone shaped like a star.
Five.
It's 6:00. This is the news.
The police still have no leads
in the case involving two murders
and one disappearance in Oslo.
A spokesperson for The Progress Party.
Annvor Ilen.
says that the police must be given
greater room for action.
When the police can't carry weapons.
they are left powerless...
- That way.
- Yes.
...and we are unsafe.
What the fuck are you doing. Waaler?
You're contaminating the crime scene.
You'll find DNA
from half the city in here.
Hate crime?
No.
It's a classic sexual murder.
Focus on the gay community.
Hi.
I just wanted to thank you for the invite.
But I'm not going to join you.
You've quit drinking?
Yeah.
I could have imagined that it...
That it was because of me... and Oleg.
But it's not.
It's because of the murders. right?
It's the only thing
that could make you quit drinking.
I miss you.
Harry?
Harry. can you hear me?
Hi. Beate. Draw a pentagram on a folio.
Seventy-two degrees between the points.
Turn on the projector.
I'll be there in five.
- Is it ready?
- Yes.
Give me two seconds.
Hey. Harry. I'd like you to do
a few interrogations.
No. I don't have time.
What are you up to?
I'm checking if our guy did
what the Celts did.
The Celts?
Move the projector closer.
Have you been drinking?
The Celts. they...
The Celts used pentagrams to decide
where to place their cathedrals.
On the tape. he said that
a pentagonal cross would show the way.
Look at this. Camilla Loen.
Lisbeth Barli. Barbara Svendsen.
This is the map he's basing it on.
Get the others.
It adds up.
It's a code.
We should have seen it a long time ago.
It was spelled out to us.
He marks everyone
that he's killed with a diamond.
- What shape?
- Five-pointed.
He's severed one of five fingers
on each of the victims.
The murders and the disappearance happened
within three consecutive weeks.
Friday. Wednesday and Monday respectively.
- How many days between them?
- Five.
- Time of day?
- Around five.
The code is a number.
Five. The victims were in what seems
like coincidental addresses.
but they have one thing in common.
It's not a number. it's...
- Fifth floor.
But why five?
What is it. an evil number or what?
Yeah. it's very common in witchcraft
and satanism and black magic.
We have five senses. there are
five life stages. acupuncture has...
The most important pattern here is this.
He drew a pentagram
and laid it over the city
and let the star point out
the places where he would kill.
and then he waited.
The right day. the right time.
Dressed as a bike courier.
Went to Ullevålsveien.
rang the bell on the fifth floor.
And Camilla Loen answered.
What about Lisbeth Barli? He didn't know
she lived on the fifth floor.
Not the street. He stood in the hallway.
the elevator came down
from the fifth floor.
Then he followed her into the street and...
Anyway. the victims are random.
the key here is the crime scenes.
If Willy Barli had taken the elevator
that day and not his wife.
he would have been the victim.
Now that we have the code.
we not only know where
the next two murders will happen.
We know when.
With five days
between each murder. it'll be...
- On Saturday.
- Tomorrow.
And he works clockwise.
So the next crime scene will
in all likelihood be here.
A student house at Kampen.
- I'll brief the investigation team.
- No.
We can't afford another leak.
Tom and Delta check the student house.
Beate and I will go to the fifth address.
- Talk to me.
- We're here.
There are lots of one beds.
the students are off for the summer.
There is no fifth floor.
There's a house inside the station here.
There's no fifth floor here either.
Okay. We'll go in and see what we can do.
- Hello?
- Hi.
Hi. We're from the police.
Can we ask you a few questions?
It was built in 1934
as a tuberculosis clinic.
Converted to student housing since.
Yes. that's my son.
Yes... So...
You've probably read about the murders
of the young women in the last few weeks?
Yes. I have certainly heard about it.
but I rarely read about things like that.
We suspect it might be a serial killer.
and that one of his next two targets...
Yeah. so...
Can your son stay here with you tomorrow?
Or maybe you could stay with him?
He lives abroad.
That makes it difficult.
But would it be okay
for one of us to be here tomorrow?
Sure. that sounds lovely.
What's supposed to happen tomorrow?
Probably nothing.
Thank you.
Were you really going to tell her
that she was next in line to die?
It's good to beat around the bush
from time to time.
Ellen used to say that too.
So you've heard about it.
that's good at least.
I've never been good at talking to people.
Your wife was shot at close range.
There was no purpose to it.
The bullet went straight
through her brain. so it...
- Hey. there.
- Hey.
Look who it is.
I think I cracked that code.
But...
But what?
Well...
It's like I can read the words
but don't understand what they mean.
- Like?
- Like that he's hidden one of the victims.
He severs the victims' fingers
on their left hand in succession.
Starting with the index finger.
then the middle. then the ring finger.
Quite the systematic.
But why didn't he start with the thumb?
Codes are like women. You have
to break them before they break you.
- You've said that before.
- I said it pretty well the first time.
[Swedish] I love you. my darling.
Instant coffee?
Are you sure you don't want
to try something better?
Yes. thank you. I...
I know.
There's no point in wasting time on it.
No.
I guess that goes for life in general.
This. Harry. is real coffee.
Much better than your instant coffee.
This is how we made it back at the farm.
I'm not allowed to move.
- What...?
- When we sleep together. me and Anders.
I'm not allowed to move.
I'm not allowed to make a sound.
He says that it's a turn-off for him
if he notices that I'm turned on.
When we're turned on.
we're turned on. right?
Harry.
I like looking at you.
I like it when you...
look at me.
I...
I can't.
I don't know what it is
that you think I have but I...
I don't have it.
You're a giant cliché.
That's fine. so am I.
Is that Rakel?
Jesus. it's so bright in here.
What's she saying?
She wants to come to the theater
on Sunday after all.
OLEG
1 NEW VOICEMAIL
I'm sorry. I have to...
You have one new message.
Received 7:45 p.m.
Hi...
No. it's nothing.
Hey.
How did you find me?
The crow's nest.
What are you doing here?
Do you like it?
I don't get why you and Dad like it.
Is that what you want to find out?
Have you been in love yet?
And her?
It's a bit like that with this chick too.
She's pretty.
At the same time. she's...
really dangerous for people like me.
And you.
Okay...
What I'm trying to say is...
That chick has ruined my life
more than anything else.
And now. you've met her.
You can let it rest now.
It stops there. okay?
What if I can't stop either?
If you... never drink again...
I won't either.
I'll do you one better.
If you and Mom get back together.
I promise to never drink again.
KAMPEN STUDENT HOUSE
I haven't set up any microphones.
We don't need sound.
we just need to see him.
There's no signal either.
so I haven't been able to
set up cameras in the elevator.
The residents have been told to stay
indoors between 4 and 6 p.m.?
Yes.
Is it looking good?
Yes. We'll be there
many hours before five.
Twenty-four people in total.
MP3s. gas masks. tear gas.
Ready to act on a signal from the bus.
It comes when he knocks on a door
or tries to enter an apartment.
Now we just have to wait until five.
Listen. about tomorrow.
is it okay if I pick you up at six?
That's fine.
What are you going to wear?
I thought I'd wear a suit.
The one I bought in Hegdehaugsveien
for May 17th. The dark one.
- Yeah. it's the only suit you own.
- Yeah. so it'll definitely be that one.
Yeah.
But hey. I...
Yes?
I kind of said yes because I...
I thought it was
a good opportunity for me to...
There's something I need to tell you.
Yeah.
But we'll do it face to face.
- Yeah. Bye.
- Bye.
Anything happen?
The troops have been on stand-by
since last night.
Only the residents
have been coming and going.
The girl in 303 had a guy with her.
but told the guard it was her boyfriend.
Everyone else is on stand-by.
- The tea is ready soon.
- Yes.
- Do you like tea?
- Yes. I love tea.
Lovely.
Was it like that when your son was little?
Good times and... and stuff?
He didn't grow up with me.
I got pregnant when I was 15 years old.
Yeah... it was a scandal.
My boy had to be sent away.
But...
How was it for you?
I mean. being that young and...
Having to send your son away and...
They didn't give me a choice.
So they said. but you do.
you always have a choice.
I let him down. I know it. he knows it.
What does he do now?
He works with imports. Yeah...
I think he told me that he's importing
goods from Eastern Europe.
And it's going well. Despite it all.
It hasn't always been like this.
I'm sure you can read it in your archives.
But that doesn't mean
that it can't go well.
People can change.
Yes. I hope so.
He doesn't really talk much about himself.
But I think that
he's found a girl he likes.
He said on the phone he had some news.
He won't say anything before coming here.
Here? He's coming here?
Yes. he's coming here tonight.
He has a meeting first.
and then he'll stay until tomorrow.
And then. he'll go back.
- To?
- To Prague.
It's way past five now.
Doesn't look like he's coming.
What if he's already here?
Has anybody seen the guy
in 303 leave the place?
No.
I want 303 checked out.
I don't consider the risk...
Now.
Alpha to Charlie 2. come in. Over.
- Charlie 2.
- Clear 303.
Copy. clearing 303.
This is the police! Stay still!
303 cleared.
A girl and a boy. both unarmed.
Naked and very much... alive.
Just get them dressed. and fall back
into position. Charlie 2.
Copy.
Someone walked through the front door
and straight into the elevator.
Alpha to all units.
Possible subject in the elevator now.
LISBETH HAS HER DEBUT IN PYGMALION
Possible subject
entering Bravo 2's sector.
Putting their hand in their pocket.
Possible weapon. can't see their hand.
Now.
Armed police! Stand still!
- Relax!
- Get down!
I said get down.
He has something in his hand.
Take off your bag.
It's not him.
What did you say?
205. that's one of the units
that we couldn't get a hold of.
According to this list.
his name is Odd Einar Lillebostad.
I'm sorry. folks. but I'm guessing that
Odd Einar Lillebostad just came home.
Are you sure it's for me?
Do you have a pen?
No?
It's nice when Martin's around.
now that I'm alone.
Yeah. I can imagine it could get
a little lonely here.
Yeah. but with Martin being here
as often as he has been. I can't complain.
So he's been here a lot lately. then?
Yes. once a week for the last four week...
No. it's been more often than that.
He's been here every fifth day.
Last time he was here.
he brought me a necklace.
Apparently. they only cut gems
like this in Prague.
"Hi! I've had a spontaneous whim."
"I've gone to Morocco with Georg.
a boy I've met."
"We'll be staying with his parents
in a small mountain village
called Hassane."
"Apparently bad phone
and network signals."
"I'll be in touch as soon
as I'm back home. Marius."
LISBETH HAS HER DEBUT IN PYGMALION
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friis